in the year 2021 more and more political
organizations are
uploading zoom meetings to their youtube
channel so what used to be hidden
behind closed doors is now visible for
the whole world to see
anybody can just go to the youtube
channel of a communist group and watch
their meetings you can
hear what the people have to say you
don't have to actually join the
organization like you had to in the
1960s or
you don't actually have to get involved
to know
what it is that they're telling their
members you don't have to do
spying or surveillance they're just
conducting surveillance on themselves
and sharing it with the whole world
so last week i was watching one of these
live streams of a meeting of a communist
organization in canada
and as i was editing i was probably
critiquing and analyzing
the footage more than they actually did
uh
and in this process i i got a little bit
emotional i was just
thinking to myself this is stupid
this is dangerous and it could
lead to disaster it could lead to really
disastrous results and i was having
basically flashbacks of having read what
i read
in tombstone last year tombstone is a
book
about communism in china the great
famine in china that happened from 1958
to 1962.
you're not going to find youtube videos
from communist china from that
time you can read this book and
familiarize yourself
with what happened in communist china
and as i was watching these videos as i
was watching
the meeting of the communist organizers
and also the people being recruited
through youtube
i wanted to shout at them and say
haven't you read this
you know haven't you learned what
happened in communist regimes
around the world but even if i did tell
them the facts
the problem isn't about the facts
the problem isn't about telling them
what actually happened
the problem is that even if i told them
what happened
they would respond in a stupid way what
do i mean when i say that they'd respond
in a stupid way
what do i mean by having a stupid
attitude
when you're confronted with facts
my uncle at 75 years old after
years and years of eating meat dairy
eggs
had a heart attack and he nearly died
i lived with him for that whole year
and i tried to tell him you should go
vegan
the one diet that will prevent you from
having another heart attack
is the vegan diet he didn't want to hear
it
when we talked about eggs he said you
can read
any study any study will show you that
eggs are healthy for you another study
will show you
that eggs are bad for you it's just
there's no real answer and you just
gotta live with it you just gotta
do what you feel this is
the problem people will be confronted
with facts
and they will completely disregard them
and just go on living how they've lived
and they don't connect it to any
ideology in particular they just think
this is how i live this is what my life
is
and in the same way the true believers
in communism
when you confront them with the facts of
what happened in communist china
they don't connect it to an ideology
they say well
it will be different this time this
revolution it'll be different because
we'll have better leadership
they think that they can't blame the
ideology they have to blame the leaders
they have to blame
something else anything other than their
belief system
we are all products of the society that
we grew up in
we're all products of the ideologies
that we were raised with by our parents
what our school teachers taught us and
at a certain stage
children go through a process of
questioning what they see
they question the beliefs that they're
trying to be indoctrinated into
and depending on who raises you
you might either have this natural
curiosity
this natural questioning and skepticism
uh
nurtured you might be lucky enough to
have
been raised in a household where if you
ask a question
your parents would say i don't know let
me look that up
i'll look it up in the encyclopedia
today it's easier than
ever to search on google or if you were
from a time where it wasn't so easy to
do that if you lived in a household
where your parents never read books
if they never went to the library you
might
more likely grow up in a household where
if you ask a question
you don't really get an answer and
you're basically told
stop asking these questions stifling
curiosity and stopping people
from being skeptical is a bad way to
raise children it's a bad way to create
a society
it's a way to create a society where a
lot of people can end up in bad
situations because they're too afraid to
ask questions
they're too afraid to say what's on
their mind because
they've been scolded for asking
questions they've been scolded for
pointing out these very obvious failures
in
the society that they're being raised in
stupidity
is made more dangerous when people are
afraid to question it
when i was reading this book i thought
to myself
these people they must have known that
the commands
that were handed down from the higher up
positions
were stupid they must have thought to
themselves
this isn't how you make iron this isn't
how you grow
corn but they were too afraid
to question the stupid commands that
were handed down to them
the result was the deaths of millions of
people
this wasn't just some minor mix-up due
to human stupidity
this was a huge disaster caused by human
stupidity
if you watch old footage of some of the
people who joined the cult of charles
manson
you'll find that if you observe their
characteristics if you observe
their behavior their speech patterns
something was a little bit off of these
people
and it's not just that they were evil
people that
they were horrible people to their core
or something
i think a lot of what we mistake as
human evil is the result
of human stupidity it was 10 am
california
time september 5th 1975.
then president gerald ford had just left
his hotel
and was walking across the street to the
state capitol
ready to address the legislature and i
actually said to myself
are you going to use this gun that's on
your leg
i said let's just go and see ford
had his hands out and was waving and had
just come from breakfast with
the businessmen and he looked like
cardboard to me but
at the same time i had ejected the
bullet in my apartment
and i used the gun as it was
the chamber was empty but secret service
agents found four bullets in the clip
fromm claimed she was given the gun for
protection and when ford came to town
she used it to take a stand on the
environment i said
it's he was only two blocks away i said
i gotta go and talk to him
and then i thought that's foolish he's
not gonna stop and talk to you
people have already shown you can lay
blood in front of them
and they're not you know they don't
think anything of it so i said
maybe i'll take the gun and i thought i
have to do this this is the time
i was unprepared
didn't i didn't it occur to you of
course
no in prison no i didn't
if i had planned to be in prison i would
have gone to state prison in california
do you have any regrets for that day
no no i don't i feel it was fate
lynette frum met charles manson on the
street when she was just 18.
that was 20 years ago oh i definitely
went after him when i saw that he wasn't
pushing and that he had spirit
and that he understood me i went
to this day fromm insists manson is
innocent she says during the tate la
bianca murder she was at the spawn ranch
with other family members
she doesn't recall where manson was but
claims he didn't kill anyone
you've got it stuck in your brain that i
murdered somebody what do you want to
call me a murderer for i've never killed
anyone
i don't need to kill anyone i think it
i have it here
maybe i should have killed 4 500 people
then i would have felt better
than when i felt like i really offered
society something
at manson's trial fraum kept a vigil
outside the courthouse with other family
members
she was asked how all the publicity
affected her a lot of pushing a lot of
pushing for
something that people want you know and
we got it
you know but um they can't grab at it
you know they just have to be patient
and care
and and it's it's in everybody
if you watch old footage of some of the
people who joined the cult of charles
manson
you'll find that if you observe their
characteristics if you observe
their behavior their speech patterns
something was a little bit off of these
people
and it's not just that they were evil
people that
they were horrible people to their core
or something
i think a lot of what we mistake as
human evil is the result of
human stupidity uh and some people they
can't help it
today i think a lot of the people that
joined that cult
would have been diagnosed with some kind
of mental disability some kind of
learning disability
that made them more vulnerable to
joining a cult like this
it's not easy to be a moral person
it's not easy to be an ethical person it
takes a certain amount of intelligence
to
question the beliefs that we're raised
with and to come to your own conclusions
about how to live
a moral virtuous life the stories that
we tell our children
the movies that we show to our children
give them a sense that there are good
people in this world
and there are evil people in this world
but it doesn't give them a sense
of the fact that reason and human
intelligence play a huge role
in human morality the people who joined
the cult of charles manson
you might have grown up and gone to
school with students just like that
students that if you look back on it
today you wonder
where they ended up now and where are
they going to end up in the future
because we know from a young age
there is an inequality in people's
intelligence
being raised in a judeo-christian
culture what i was told when i was
growing up is that
if somebody is more stupid than you
don't be mean to them
and don't bully them for being stupider
than you but
what i think wasn't taught to me is that
it's not
necessarily about bullying it's trying
to teach somebody
and there's a certain amount where you
have to teach somebody you have to
make them realize that what they're
saying is stupid for them to
grow past it to to get past that
certain level of intelligence move
beyond it and learn and become a better
person become a smarter person
intelligence is not just fixed it's
something that you can build on it's
something that you can
continue growing as you get older it's
not polite to point out stupidity
it's polite to conceal stupidity
even more polite is to pretend that you
don't notice
somebody's stupidity it's polite but
it's dangerous
if you don't point out a stupid idea if
you don't point out somebody's stupidity
they could go on to do something really
dangerous not only for them
but for our entire society being raised
in a judeo-christian culture
sometimes politeness is seen as the
utmost in virtue
but would you rather be perceived as
somebody who was
polite and didn't point out somebody's
stupidity
and didn't respect that person enough to
tell them that some of their ideas were
really stupid and potentially harmful
and dangerous
or would you rather be seen as somebody
who was impolite
but actually prevented somebody from
doing something dangerous
or prevented them from continuing
believing in stupid ideas
that could harm themselves and harm
others inside that communist
organization zoom meanings everyone was
being very polite
and in this way it minimizes the danger
of the ideology that they're discussing
in cults
in religions in political movements that
resemble
cults or religions people can be really
polite to you
they can be really encouraging and this
is what draws people in
but this politeness conceals the
stupidity behind their ideology
the danger behind their beliefs today
from
is not ready to leave prison she says
confinement is not easy to describe to
those who haven't been there
i think it's unnecessary i don't know
why you have you locked up
when i could be of value but
until policy changes for
air and trees water land wildlife until
like ccc camps bring the kids
to the land uh
i'll be here
[Music]